---
title: 'From The Archives: Newly created foundation will support arts in education'
date: 2018-03-11 00:00:00 -08:00
position: 3
Author: Name Teekay
Main Image: test-article.jpg
Description: This is an excellent test article.
Category: Interview
---

*Lauren Brown, Burns Times-Herald, 2008*

In response to the Burns-Hines school budget committee’s decision to cut the elementary school music program at a cost of $62,578 to the district, a group of concerned citizens has formed the Harney County Arts in Education Foundation.

Much like the Save Our District Activities (SODA) group that formed in 2003 to combat the district’s decision to cut all sports by raising $213,000, the Arts in Education Foundation will look to stabilize the funding for the district’s music programs.

“Our emphasis is on keeping the music in the schools,” said Chairperson Becky Thein.

The foundation is on its way to becoming incorporated with a tax exempt status. Some donations have already been raised through the Hines Middle School and Burns High School band concerts. However, the foundation, will also look to raise funds through grant writing and other avenues.

While the immediate goal is to get music funding stabilized for the 2008-2009 school year, the group’s more far-reaching goals extend to fundraising for a performing arts center that could be utilized for concerts and theatrical productions.

“I feel music and academics go hand in hand,” Thein said. “There should be no option to cut it out of the curriculum.”

The Harney County Arts in Education Foundation’s mission statement says that it was founded to promote, perpetuate, enrich and improve music education, performing arts and theater arts for the schools in Harney County.”

Members includes corresponding secretary Terry Ruggles, recording secretary Sharla Calkins, treasurer Sandra Obradovich and non-voting advisory member Debby Peckham.

The foundation is in the process of creating a list of benefactors and will host a booth at the Harney County Fair this summer.